


                  KENTUCKY FRIED THEATRE'S


                     A I R P L A N E !


                         Written by

                        Jim Abrahams

                        David Zucker

                        Jerry Zucker










                                             SHOOTING SCRIPT
                                             June 11, 1979
                                             Revised 6/15/79










FADE IN:

EXT. SKY - JUST ABOVE CLOUDS - NIGHT

OMINOUS, THREATENING MUSIC. The upper tail fin of a jet
plane emerges through the cloud layer and PASSES THROUGH the
FRAME like a shark's fin through water. It passes by again
in the opposite direction. MUSIC BUILDS as the fin comes
straight TOWARD the CAMERA, MUSIC SWELLS to CRESCENDO as
entire jet plane lifts out of clouds and passes overhead.
TITLE SLASHES ACROSS SCREEN, "AIRPLANE!"

CREDITS and MUSIC continue over following.

EXT. AIRPORT - NIGHT (STOCK)

ESTABLISHING terminal building.

EXT. TERMINAL BUILDING - PASSENGER LOADING ZONE - NIGHT

Airport bus arrives. Stewardess ELAINE DICKINSON steps off.
CAMERA FOLLOWS Elaine as she walks to terminal building.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (female v.o.)
         The white zone is for immediate loading
         and unloading of passengers only. There is
         no stopping in the red zone.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (male v.o.)
         The red zone is for immediate loading and
         unloading of passengers. There is no
         stopping in the white zone.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (female v.o.)
         No. The white zone is for loading and
         unloading, and there is no stopping in the
         red zone.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (male v.o.)
         The red zone has always been for loading
         and unloading, and there is never stopping
         in a white zone.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (female v.o.)
         Don't tell me which zone is for stopping
         and which zone is for loading.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (male v.o.)
         Listen, Betty. Don't start up with your
         white zone shit again!

Elaine enters terminal building.

INT. TERMINAL BUILDING - NIGHT

Elaine is approached by a religious ZEALOT #1.

                        ZEALOT #1
         Hello, we'd like you to have this flower
         from the Religious Consciousness Church.

                        ELAINE
         No, but thank you very much.

Arrival-Departure TV monitors. Elaine approaches.

ELAINE'S POV - TV MONITORS

Reads: Flight 209 to Chicago - Depart Gate 89 - 7:25 p.m.
Arrival monitor is goldfish swimming.

BACK TO ELAINE

She checks her watch and walks past Security Check area.
CAMERA STAYS with a middle-aged couple, SHIRLEY and JACK,
waiting to pass through Security Check. Behind them is sign
reading: WARNING, HIJACKING IS A FEDERAL OFFENSE, etc.

                        SHIRLEY
         Jack, isn't that Fred Bliffert over there
         in the blue turtleneck? Maybe he's on our
         flight to Chicago.

                        JACK
         Yeah, I think he is.
              (waves)
         Hey, Fred!

FRED recognizes Jack.

                        FRED
              (yelling)
         Hi, Jack!!!

A swarm of police and airport security men descend on Fred
and take him away.

EXT. AIRPORT - PASSENGER LOADING ZONE - NIGHT

A limousine arrives. Two colorfully dressed BLACK DUDES
emerge. An extra pesters them. Two HARE KRISHNA'S arrive on
foot and walk toward terminal.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (female v.o.)
         There's just no stopping in the white
         zone.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (male v.o.)
         Christ, you're as bad as your mother!

                        P.A. SYSTEM (female v.o.)
         Oh, really, Vernon! Why pretend? We both
         know perfectly well what it is you're
         talking about. You want me to have an
         abortion.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (male v.o.)
         It's really the only sensible thing to do.
         If it's done properly, therapeutically,
         there's no danger involved.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (female v.o.)
         Have you considered that what's inside me
         is a human being; that it's alive. We made
         love. It's us -- you and me.

                        P.A. SYSTER (male v.o.)
         That isn't true. A fetus at this stage is
         not a human being, nor is it a person.

Krishnas enter terminal building.

INT. TERMINAL BUILDING - NIGHT

The Krishnas are approached by the Religious Zealot.

                        ZEALOT #2
         Hello, we'd like you to have this flower
         from the Church of Consciousness. Would
         you like to make a donation?

                        KRISHNA
              (shakes his head)
         No, we gave at the office.

INT. TERMINAL BUILDING - NIGHT

A voluptuous BLONDE saunters through the airport, clears her
throat loudly, and spits on the wall.

She walks past an ELDERLY WOMAN standing outside a men's
room door. She turns and sticks her head in the door.

                        ELDERLY WOMAN
         Go, O.J., go!!

INT. SECURITY CHECK AREA - NIGHT

SECURITY CHECK LADY is watching X-ray scanner. First picture
is typically filled suitcase, then another, then a chest X-
ray.

A man passes through metal detector archway and it BEEPS.

                        SECURITY LADY
         Please put your metal objects on this
         tray.

He puts his watch, keys on the tray. Then removes his metal
arm and metal leg.

EXT. TERMINAL BUILDING - PASSENGER LOADING AREA - NIGHT

MR. and MRS. HAMMEN and their eight year old son, JOEY,
arrive in a station wagon. They unload luggage.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (male v.o.)
         The red zone is for immediate loading and
         unloading of passengers only. There is no
         stopping in the white zone.

P.A. System Female v.o. weeping.

                        P. A. SYSTEM (male v.o.)
         The red zone is for...Betty, put down that
         gun!

SHOTS and GROAN.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (female v.o.)
         The white zone is for immediate loading
         and unloading of passengers only. There is
         no stopping in the red zone.

The Hammens walk toward terminal past a BUSINESSMAN.

                        BUSINESSMAN
         Taxi!

A taxi cab skids to a stop in front of him. The Businessman
gets in as the driver, TED STRIKER, drops the flag and
rushes out.

                        STRIKER
         Back in a minute.

INT. TERMINAL BUILDING - BAGGAGE PICKUP AREA - NIGHT

Striker enters, looking around as if searching for someone.
People are rolling down the conveyor belt of a baggage
carousel, banging into each other like luggage. The luggage
is standing around the conveyor belt, waiting for the people
to come off.

INT. TERMINAL BUILDING - ANOTHER AREA - NIGHT

Striker, walking briskly, is approached by Zealot #3 who
tries to pin a flower on his jacket. Striker keeps walking
but the Zealot is persistent. Finally, Striker slips out of
his jacket leaving the Zealot with the coat.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (v.o.)
         Your attention, please. Flight seven-
         thirty-three from Milwaukee is now
         arriving on the B Concourse, Gate thirty-
         five.

EXT. RUNWAY - NIGHT

Flight 733 taxis toward gate. A GROUND CREWMAN with red
flashlights is directing plane to his right. A SECOND
GROUND CREWMAN approaches as First Ground Crewman continues
to direct plane to his right.

CREDITS END.

                        GROUND CREWMAN #2
         Hey, Joe, where's the forklift?

                        GROUND CREWMAN #1
         The forklift? It's over there by the
         baggage loader.

He points to the left with his flashlights. Flight 733
follows flashlights and CRASHES into terminal.

INT. TERMINAL - GATE 35 - NIGHT

Nose of Flight 733 CRASHES into terminal, scattering waiting
crowd. A woman tosses away her infant child as she runs off.

INT. TERMINAL BULIDING - ANOTHER AREA - NIGHT

Striker catches up to Elaine.

                        STRIKER
         Elaine!

                        ELAINE
              (surprised)
         Ted!

                        STRIKER
         I came home early and found your note. I
         guess you meant for me to read it later.
         Elaine, I've got to talk to you.

                        ELAINE
         I just don't want to go over it any more.

                        STRIKER
         I know things haven't been right for a
         long time, but it'll be different. If
         you'll just be patient, I can work things
         out.

                        ELAINE
         I have been patient and I've tried to
         help, but you wouldn't even let me do
         that.

                        STRIKER
         Don't you feel anything for me at all any
         more?

                        ELAINE
         It takes so many things to make love last.
         Most of all it takes respect. And I can't
         live with a man I don't respect!

She leaves.

                        STRIKER
              (to CAMERA)
         What a pisser.

INT. TERMINAL BUILDING - CONCESSION AREA - NIGHT

CAPTAIN CLARENCE OVEUR is standing at the magazine racks.
The first two sections of the display are books; the third
is girly magazines. The captions over the disÂ­play are
FICTION, NON-FICTION, WHACKING MATERIAL. He selects a
magazine entitled "Modern Sperm" and begins to page through.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (v.o.)
         Captain Clarence Oveur, white courtesy
         phone. Captain Clarence Oveur, white
         courtesy phone.

Captain Oveur approaches telephones and picks up a red
phone.

                        OPERATOR (v.o.)
         No, the white phone.

Oveur picks up the white phone.

                        OVEUR
         This is Captain Oveur.

                        OPERATOR (v.o.)
         One moment for your call from the Mayo
         Clinic.

                        P.A. SYSTEM (v.o.)
         Captain Oveur, white courtesy phone.
         Captain Clarence Oveur...

                        OVEUR
              (yelling at ceiling)
         I've got it!

                        P.A. SYSTEM (v.o.)
         All right. Thank you.

                        OPERATOR (v.o.)
         Go ahead with your call.

                        TURNANSKY (v.o.)
         This is Doctor Turnansky at the Mayo
         Clinic.

INT. DR. TURNANSKY'S OFFICE - NIGHT

DR. TURNANSKY is seated at desk. Behind him are shelves
filled with mayonnaise jars.

                        TURNANSKY
         There's a passenger on your Chicago flight
         two-oh-niner, a little girl named Lisa
         Davis -- en route to Minneapolis. She's
         scheduled for a heart transplant and we'd
         like you to tell her mother that we found
         a donor an hour ago.

On his desk is a beaker containing a beating heart.

                        TURNANSKY
         We have the heart here ready for surgery
         and we must have the recipient on the
         operating table within six hours.

The heart jumps out of the beaker, across the desk and falls
off the edge.

                        TURNANSKY
         I want you to make sure she is kept in a
         reclined position and that a continuous
         watch is kept on her I.V.

INT. TERMINAL BUILDING - PHONE AREA - NIGHT

                        TURNANSKY (v.o.)
         Also, it's important that...

                        OPERATOR (v.o.)
         Excuse me. This is the Operator, Captain
         Oveur, I have an emergency call for you on
         line five trom a Mister Hamm.

                        OVEUR
         All right. Give me Hamm on five, hold the
         Mayo.

EXT. RUNWAY - NIGHT

Ambulance arrives at airplane. Attendants and MRS. DAVIS
unload LISA DAVIS into wheelchair.

INT. TERMINAL BUILDING - NIGHT

Elaine and Striker are walking together.

                        STRIKER
         Look, you'll be back in town tomorrow
         night. We'll have dinner -- talk it over.

                        ELAINE
         I won't be back. I've requested the
         Atlanta run.

                        STRIKER
         Elaine, not yet. I promise you I really
         can change.

                        ELAINE
         Then why don't you take the job that Louie
         Netz offered you at Boeing?

In the b.g. an airline PORTER is transporting an ELDERLY
COUPLE in an electric cart. They round the corner too fast
and the woman falls out. Husband doesn't notice.

                        STRIKER
         You know I haven't been able to get near
         an airplane since the war. And even if I
         could, they wouldn't hire me because of my
         war record.

                        ELAINE
         Your war record? You're the only one
         keeping that alive. For everyone else it's
         ancient history.

                        STRIKER
         You expect me to believe that?

In the b.g. the Elderly Woman staggers to her feet and is
immediately run over by another electric cart.

                        ELAINE
         It's the truth. What's hurt you the most
         is your record since the war. Different
         cities, different jobs, and not one of
         them shows you can accept any real
         responsibility.

                        STRIKER
         But if you'll just give me...

                        ELAINE
         It's too late, Ted. When I get back to
         Chicago, I'm going to start my life all
         over again. I'm sorry.

She walks off. Dramatic MUSIC as Striker glares with
determination. The religious Zealot tries to pin a flower on
his lapel.